CLDR-15370 Revise documentation for key-types (#5651)
unicode-org/cldr: docs/site/translation/displaynames/locale-option-names-key.md

title: 'Locale Option Names'
---

<!-- TODO
Update the tables to the latest English names.
Consider changing the English names for clarity.
-->

> Locale codes can have special variants, to indicate the use of particular calendars or other features. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Locale codes can have special variants to indicate the use of particular calendars or other features. 
```

> They can be used to select among different options in menus, and also display which options are in effect for the user. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
They can be used to select different options in menus, and to display which options are currently in effect for the user. 
```

> The locale codes use a special format like `de_DE`; the names for these locales are assembled from names for language, script, region, and so on. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The locale codes use a specific format, like `de_DE`. The format for these locales are assembled from the names of the language, script, region, and so on. 
```

> Locale codes can also carry options, such as when users want to use native digits or ASCII digits (aka Latin digits). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Locale codes can also carry options, such as when users will expect digits in their native script or ASCII digits (aka Latin digits). 
```

The full name of a locale will include those options in a short format, such as _German (Germany, Buddhist Calendar)_.

Options have a 'title' and a 'value'.
For example, look at the following menu.
The _title_ is "Calendar" and the _values_ are Gregorian, Buddhist, Chinese, etc.

- **Calendar**
        - Gregorian
        - Buddhist
        - Chinese
        - …

> You'll be asked to supply the names in your language for the option title and for various option values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You will be asked to supply these names in your language for the option title and for various option values.
```

| Numbers | The numbering system in use, such as European (0,1,2), Arabic (٠, ١, ٢ ), Devanagari ( ०,  १,  २ ). <br /> - Usually these are just derived from the name of the script.<br /> - There are some special forms, such as "Simplified Chinese Financial Numerals" or "Full Width Digits". |

## Full List
The following provides a full list of keys and values.
You may see just a subset of the keys and/or their values, depending on your coverage level. 

> (It does exclude the Transform options, because those are used less often.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(It excludes the Transform options, because those are used less often.)
```

Note that in many cases the values do not need to be translated, because the data is available elsewhere. 
For example, 

> * numbering systems — most are identified by their Script code (because the Script names are already available).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* numbering systems — most are identified by their Script code (because the Script names are already available)
```

Codes: hc, hours

> This option allws the choice of hour cycle (12 vs 24, and starting with zero or 1)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This option allws the choice of hour cycle (12 vs 24, and starting with zero or one).
```

|Codes|English Name|Description|
|-|-|-|
|c12|12|The best choice of 12 hour cycle for the locale: starting with zero or with one|
|c24|24|The best choice of 24 hour cycle for the locale: starting with zero or with one|
|h11|12 (0–11)|Hour system using 0–11; 'K' in patterns|
|h12|12 (1–12)|Hour system using 1–12; 'h' in patterns|
|h23|24 (0–23)|Hour system using 0–23; 'H' in patterns|
|h24|24 (1–24)|Hour system using 1–24; 'k' in patterns|
|c24|24 (1–24)|Hour system using 1–24; 'k' in patterns|

### Sorting

> Collation (alphabetic sorting) is very different according to language: for example, Swedish sorts å after z, while many other languages sort it after a.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Collation (alphabetic sorting) can be very different in different languages. For example, Swedish sorts å after z, while many other languages sort it after a.
```

(If you are interested, the [introduction section of the Unicode Collation Algorithm report](https://www.unicode.org/reports/tr10/#Introduction) is a good description of how collation works in software.)
The collation data is also used in searching, such as Search on Page in your browser.

#### Sort Order

Codes: co, collation

> These allow for variant was of sorting, such as:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These allow for variant ways of sorting, such as:
```

> * German sorting can be _standard_ or _phonebook_ (the latter treats umlauts as if they are spelled out

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* German sorting can be _standard_ or _phonebook_ (the latter treats umlauts as if they are spelled out)
```

|unihan|Radical-Stroke|Pinyin ordering for Latin, Unihan radical-stroke ordering for CJK characters (used in Chinese)|
|zhuyin|Zhuyin|Pinyin ordering for Latin, zhuyin order for Bopomofo and CJK characters (used in Chinese)|

#### Uppercase/Lowercase Ordering

Codes: kf, colCaseFirst

> Normally lowercase characters are sorted before uppercase, when there are no letter differences.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Normally lower case characters are sorted before upper case, if there are no other differences.
```

> So abbot < Abbot < abbots.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example: abbot < Abbot < abbots.
```

> These options allow that to be controled, by picking which goes first.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These options allow that collation preference to be controlled.
```

|Codes|English Name|Description|
|-|-|-|
|lower|Lowercase|Lower case to be sorted before upper case|
|upper|Uppercase|Upper case to be sorted before lower case|

#### Script/Block Reordering

Codes: kr, colReorder

Collation can also be optimized to sort groups of characters in a different order. 
These groups are: spaces, punctuation, numbers, currency symbols, other symbols, _and_ any scripts.

> For example, people may want their script to be before all others, or to have numbers sort after letters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, people may want their native script to be before all others, or to have numbers sort after letters.
```

Codes: nu, numbers

There are many different numbering systems in use in the world.
This option allows the numbering system to be chosen.
The primary option values are based on script, such as 'latn' for ASCII 0,1,2,…
You do not need to translate those, because they use the name of the script.

> The 'native' option is another common one. It chooses the numbering system associated with the locale's script, such as Devanagari digits for  languages that use the Devanagari script (such as Hindi).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The 'native' option is another common one. It chooses the numbering system associated with the locale's script, such as Devanagari digits for languages that use the Devanagari script (such as Hindi).
```

|jpanfin|Japanese financial|Japanese financial numerals — algorithmic|
|jpanyear|Japanese first-year Gannen numbering|Japanese first-year Gannen numbering for Japanese calendar|
|lanatham|Tai Tham Tham (ecclesiastical)|Tai Tham Tham (ecclesiastical) digits|
|tamldec|Modern Tamil|Modern Tamil decimal digits|
|mymrepka|Myanmar Eastern Pwo Karen|Myanmar Eastern Pwo Karen digits|
|mymrpao|Myanmar Pao|Myanmar Pao digits|
|mymrshan|Myanmar Shan|Myanmar Shan digits|
|mymrtlng|Myanmar Tai Laing|Myanmar Tai Laing digits|
|mathbold|Mathematical bold|Mathematical bold digits|
|mathdbl|Mathematical double-struck|Mathematical double-struck digits|
|mathmono|Mathematical monospace|Mathematical monospace digits|
|mathsanb|Mathematical sans-serif bold|Mathematical sans-serif bold digits|
|mathsans|Mathematical sans-serif|Mathematical sans-serif digits|
|outlined|Outlined|Legacy computing outlined digits|
|segment|Segmented|Legacy computing segmented digits|

### Segmentation

#### Line Breaks within Words

Codes: lw

> For languages that can linebreak in the middle of words (such as Japanese), there are a number of options to control what happens. These are used by CSS (which controls formatting of HTML).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For languages that can linebreak in the middle of words (such as Japanese), there are a number of options to control how that happens. These are used by CSS (which controls formatting of HTML).
```

|Codes|English Name|Description|
|-|-|-|
|breakall|Break all|allow midword breaks unless forbidden by lb setting = CSS word-break=break-all|
|keepall|Keep all|prohibit midword breaks except for dictionary breaks = CSS word-break=keep-all|
|normal|Normal|normal script/language behavior for midword breaks = CSS word-break=normal|
|phrase|Keep in phrases|Prioritize keeping natural phrases (of multiple words) together when breaking, used in short text like title and headline|

#### CJK Line Break

Codes: lb

> This is also use for CJK languages

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is also used for CJK languages (Chinese, Japanese, Korean)
```
